so we begin with uh breaking news from
the Middle East the Israeli military
says it's received intelligence in the
past few hours that confirms that the
head of hamas's military Wing Muhammad
Dave was killed in Gaza last month
Israel's defense minister Yol gal yev
Galant says his death is a significant
milestone in the dismantling of Hamas
Muhammad da was targeted in a strike on
a compound in the hanun area on July the
13th the Israeli Army said at the time
that another Hamas Commander was killed
but said it did not have final
confirmation on the fate of Dave well
Hamas said that he survived the attack
but did not provide proof it comes as
tens of thousands of people are
attending the funeral procession in tran
of Hamas political Chief Ismael hania
who was assassinated in the Iranian
capital on Wednesday Iran has threatened
a harsh punishment for his killing which
it blames on Israel we can speak to our
correspondent our Middle East
correspondent yolan Nell who's in
Jerusalem uh yolan can you just tell us
the significance of this announcement
that uh Muhammad Dave was killed in that
attack yeah I mean there's the timing
first of all just after we've had the
news of these other two uh targeted
killings in the past couple of days the
Israeli military ping out this short
statement confirming that in this strike
in the south of Gaza uh two weeks ago it
did in fact uh kill um this man he was
long at the top of Israel's most wanted
list Muhammad Dave um and really is seen
as an architect of the 7th of October
attacks the head of the Hamas military
Wing uh in Gaza and somebody who really
had a leading role in the organization
for something like 30 years had been
very much involved um in building up
that network of tunnels in which he was
believed to have continued during the
war
uh to command um many of the the Hamas
military activities he was also very
much involved in in building up its its
bomb making capabilities but he was
somebody who was so very much a shadowy
figure he very rarely um was seen uh um
and really you know didn't appear uh in
public even just his voice I know that
he was in the past the subject of
several Israeli assassination attempts I
remember during the 2014 War standing on
the rubble of his home where his wife
and two of his small children were
killed but where uh he
survived um we're just getting some
footage yand um that I just want to
bring to our viewers this is IDF uh
aerial footage that uh claims to show
that uh July the 13th incident where um
the uh IDF is saying that Muhammad uh uh
Dave um was killed um and
presumably presumably that moment that
he was killed there that we are seeing
um Israel's defense minister yev Galant
has has said this is a a significant
milestone in the dismantling of of her
Mass um what do you think could be the
then the implications of this being
revealed I mean it had been suspected
that he was killed but really the facts
um were unclear and we've had um a
picture that yav Galant the defend
Minister put out um on social media
where he is shown um Crossing off the
picture of Muhammad Dave from uh the
Hamas command list the list of people
that um Israel is really going after in
in Gaza and I think a lot of focus now
will be on what happens to Yahya sinoa
who is the leader uh of the Hamas
political Wing in Gaza also seen as
having really masterminded the 7th of
October attacks he uh now stays at the
top of that wanted list but I think
Israel has really wanted to show uh its
own public and the world that it is
determined to go after those who carried
out those unprecedented um attacks um
that killed something like 1,200 people
last year Israel also believes that by
putting this pressure on Hamas um
ultimately it will make it more possible
to get to a ceasefire and hostage
release deal that it can agree to uh
yoland for now thank you very much let's
uh speak to our security Cy
correspondent Frank Gardner for more on
this so Frank we we heard that Iran has
uh vowed Revenge after um the the death
of uh Ismael hania and and now this has
been announced what what do you think
could be the potential escalations
here well I think it's pretty news for
ceasefire talks it's very good news for
Israel this is somebody who as Yulan
says that they've been after for some
time Muhammad Dave is a hugely
significant figure he's been described
by the Israel is today by Israel as the
assama bin ladin of Hamas so um I'm not
quite sure that that's an accurate
description because he was a military
commander rather than the sort of
necessarily the kind of intellectual
brains which was more yaka sinoa but
this is somebody who they've been
targeting for a very long time as Yan
says has been hiding in tunnels he's
somebody who they would have liked to
have killed right at the beginning of
the whole Gaza uh ret iation operation
for the October the 7th raid um and
along with yaka sinoa he's right at the
top of the tree that they've been trying
to cut down to try to dismantle hamas's
military operation Muhammad Dave was 58
he was born in 1965 in Khan Yunis the
same place that he has reported to been
killed in and he's been leading the
what's known as the aadin Kasam brigades
which is the military WI of Hamas now I
remember that Hamas is a prescribed
terrorist organization by many
governments um and therefore some people
in Israel certainly don't make any
distinction between its military or its
political wings but nevertheless he's
very much he was very much the military
commander on the ground in Gaza while is
hania who was killed in tan in that air
strike was the one shuttling around
based in Doha doing a lot of the
negotiations a lot of the talks
what do you make of the timing of this
announcement Frank do you think this is
information that has just come to light
to the IDF or do you think there is a a
a strategy and the timing of this
information being
released it's hard to say I think
probably you need to be in Jerusalem to
know the kind of intricacies of that but
certainly um Israel is is lashing out in
all directions at the moment it's
basically trying to send out deterence
to those who are attacking it or uh
tending to attack it that there are
punishments for this that there is a
cost with this so they've hit the
houthis in Yemen they've hit Heda Port
because the houthis have been sending
explosive drones towards Israel and one
of them was able to get through and
reach Tel Aviv um they've hit Hezbollah
they've hit the senior Commander there
in beut uh even though Western
governments have said please don't hit
beut don't trigger a huge great big war
across the Lebanon is Israel border but
nevertheless they did that in a
calibrated targeted strike I think some
people are going to be asking if they're
able to eliminate somebody in one of
these targeted strikes albe it there are
civilians probably killed alongside that
why is it taken the deaths of 39,000
Palestinians in this 10mon long Gaza
operation when there's simply after
dismantling Hamas as a military
organization so it's been a fairly
weapon that the Israelis have used to
hit Hamas so
far what do you think will be the wider
implications across the world I'm
particularly thinking about the the US
response uh to this
news well the US has been very
supportive uh of Israel's military aims
they've been a lot less supportive and
increasingly uh concerned at the rising
number of Civilian casualties at the
what they consider to be the unaccept
able High number of Civilian casualties
caused by Israel's operations in in Gaza
and at the same time there is rising
concern in the UN and the International
Community at what's going on in the West
Bank that tends to get ignored um in all
the uh action that's going on on the
Israel Lebanon border and also in Gaza
but what's going on in the West Bank is
um according to uh International workers
that I've spoken to Aid workers and
others it's pretty bad in terms of the
um appropriation of Palestinian land uh
the persecution of Palestinians been
having their Olive Groves burnt that
they have farmed for decades and the in
there have been plenty of recorded
instances of the Israeli police and
military simply standing by or even
assisting as settlers um attack
Palestinian communities there so all of
that is feeding into sense of
hopelessness um so while Israel is
certainly will be Israelis will be
congratulating themselves today on the
deaths of of Muhammad and
um sh in hisbah in beut and to to some
extent is malania as well um
nevertheless it doesn't change the fact
that the Israel Palestinian situation
has yet is a long way off being resolved
um and that's that that's the
fundamental driver of this conflict that
there is still no independent
self-governing state for the
Palestinians they are still occupied and
that's feeding into the
violence Frank Gardner we appreciate
your assessment on that thank you very
much